 
Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Cefprozil / gluten
 
Attending: ___
 
Chief Complaint:
Abdominal pain
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___: Laparoscopic appendectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
___ with hx of celiac disease presenting with 36 hours of
abdominal pain and anorexia. Patient reports ___ 
pain,
migrating to the RLQ today. Denies fevers, chills or bloody
stools. Last BM was yesterday, formed. 

The patient does have a history of celiac disease which is
well-controlled on gluten-free diet. 

 
Past Medical History:
PMH: celiac disease

PSH: none

 
Social History:
___
Family History:
sister with celiac disease
 
Physical Exam:
PE: VS:98.2 68 122/86 16 98%  
General: in no acute distress, well-developed white Caucasian
male
HEENT: mucus membranes moist, nares clear, trachea at midline
CV: regular rate, rhythm. No appreciable murmurs, rubs, gallops
Pulm: clear to auscultation bilaterally
Abd: scaphoid, no hernias, masses or incisions. TTP at 
McBurney's
point, + rebound tenderness. Negative Rosving's
MSK: warm, well perfused
Neuro: alert, oriented to person, place, time

 
Pertinent Results:
Labs:
6.4>36<275 
N:67.2 L:25.5 M:5.9 E:1.0 Bas:0.4 

___: 11.8  PTT: 32.1  INR: 1.1  

Diagnostics:
CT A/P (Atrius): inflamed, dilated appendix in RLQ overlying
psoas muscle without e/o of perforation.

 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the General Surgical Service on 
___ for evaluation and treatment of abdominal pain.  
Admission abdominal/pelvic CT revealed inflamed, dilated 
appendix without evidence of perforation. WBC was normal at 6.4. 
The patient underwent laparoscopic appendectomy, which went well 
without complication (reader referred to the Operative Note for 
details). After a brief, uneventful stay in the PACU, the 
patient arrived on the floor tolerating sips, on IV fluids, and 
IV analgesia for pain control.  The patient was hemodynamically 
stable.
.
When tolerating a diet, the patient was converted to oral pain 
medication with continued good effect. Diet was progressively 
advanced as tolerated to a regular diet with good tolerability. 
The patient voided without problem. During this hospitalization, 
the patient ambulated early and frequently, was adherent with 
respiratory toilet and incentive spirometry, and actively 
participated in the plan of care. The patient received 
subcutaneous heparin and venodyne boots were used during this 
stay.
.
At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
with stable vital signs.  The patient was tolerating a regular 
diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled.  The patient was discharged home without services. 
The patient received discharge teaching and follow-up 
instructions with understanding verbalized and agreement with 
the discharge plan.

 
Medications on Admission:
none
 
Discharge Medications:
1. Acetaminophen 650 mg PO Q6H pain 
RX *acetaminophen 325 mg 2 tablet(s) by mouth every six (6) 
hours Disp #*30 Tablet Refills:*0
2. Docusate Sodium 100 mg PO BID 
RX *docusate sodium 100 mg 1 capsule(s) by mouth twice a day 
Disp #*20 Capsule Refills:*0
3. OxycoDONE (Immediate Release)  ___ mg PO Q4H:PRN pain 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg ___ tablet(s) by mouth every four (4) hours 
Disp #*30 Tablet Refills:*0
4. Senna 8.6 mg PO BID:PRN constipation 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Acute appendicitis

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
You were admitted to the hospital with acute appendicitis. You 
were taken to the operating room and had your appendix removed 
laparoscopically. You tolerated the procedure well and are now 
being discharged home to continue your recovery with the 
following instructions.
 
Please follow up in the Acute Care Surgery clinic at the 
appointment listed below.
 
ACTIVITY:
 
o Do not drive until you have stopped taking pain medicine and 
feel you could respond in an emergency.
o You may climb stairs. 
o  You may go outside, but avoid traveling long distances until 
you see your surgeon at your next visit.
o  Don't lift more than ___ lbs for 4 weeks. (This is about 
the weight of a briefcase or a bag of groceries.) This applies 
to lifting children, but they may sit on your lap.
o You may start some light exercise when you feel comfortable.
o You will need to stay out of bathtubs or swimming pools for a 
time while your incision is healing. Ask your doctor when you 
can resume tub baths or swimming.
 
HOW YOU MAY FEEL: 
o  You may feel weak or "washed out" for a couple of weeks. You 
might want to nap often. Simple tasks may exhaust you.
o  You may have a sore throat because of a tube that was in your 
throat during surgery.
o  You might have trouble concentrating or difficulty sleeping. 
You might feel somewhat depressed.
o  You could have a poor appetite for a while. Food may seem 
unappealing.
o  All of these feelings and reactions are normal and should go 
away in a short time.  If they do not, tell your surgeon.
 
YOUR INCISION:
o Tomorrow you may shower and remove the gauzes over your 
incisions. Under these dressing you have small plastic bandages 
called steri-strips. Do not remove steri-strips for 2 weeks. 
(These are the thin paper strips that might be on your 
incision.) But if they fall off before that that's okay).
o Your incisions may be slightly red around the stitches. This 
is normal.
o You may gently wash away dried material around your incision.
o Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area.
o Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.
o You may see a small amount of clear or light red fluid 
staining your dressing or clothes. If the staining is severe, 
please call your surgeon.
o You may shower. As noted above, ask your doctor when you may 
resume tub baths or swimming.
 
YOUR BOWELS:
o Constipation is a common side effect of narcotic pain 
medications. If needed, you may take a stool softener (such as 
Colace, one capsule) or gentle laxative (such as milk of 
magnesia, 1 tbs) twice a day. You can get both of these 
medicines without a prescription.
o If you go 48 hours without a bowel movement, or have pain 
moving the bowels, call your surgeon. 
 
PAIN MANAGEMENT:
o It is normal to feel some discomfort/pain following abdominal 
surgery. This pain is often described as "soreness". 
o Your pain should get better day by day. If you find the pain 
is getting worse instead of better, please contact your surgeon.
o You will receive a prescription for pain medicine to take by 
mouth. It is important to take this medicine as directed. o Do 
not take it more frequently than prescribed. Do not take more 
medicine at one time than prescribed.
o Your pain medicine will work better if you take it before your 
pain gets too severe.
o Talk with your surgeon about how long you will need to take 
prescription pain medicine. Please don't take any other pain 
medicine, including non-prescription pain medicine, unless your 
surgeon has said its okay.
o If you are experiencing no pain, it is okay to skip a dose of 
pain medicine.
o Remember to use your "cough pillow" for splinting when you 
cough or when you are doing your deep breathing exercises.
If you experience any of the following, please contact your 
surgeon:
- sharp pain or any severe pain that lasts several hours
- pain that is getting worse over time
- pain accompanied by fever of more than 101
- a drastic change in nature or quality of your pain
 
MEDICATIONS:
Take all the medicines you were on before the operation just as 
you did before, unless you have been told differently.
If you have any questions about what medicine to take or not to 
take, please call your surgeon.

 
Followup Instructions:
___
